Other than convolutional layers,
ConvNets often also use pooling layers to
reduce the size of their representation
to speed up computation,
as well as to make some of the features
it detects a bit more robust.
Let's take a look.
Let's go through an example of pooling,
and
then we'll talk about why
you might want to do this.
Suppose you have a 4x4 input, and
you want to apply a type of
pooling called max pooling.
And the output of this particular
implementation of max pooling
will be a 2x2 output.
And the way you do that is quite simple.
Take your 4x4 input and
break it into different regions.
And I'm going to color
the four regions as follows.
And then in the output, which is 2x2,
each of the outputs will just be the max
from the correspondingly shaded region.
So in the upper left, I I guess
a max of these four numbers is 9.
Upper right, and
the max of blue numbers is 2.
Lower left, the biggest number is 6, and
lower right, the biggest number is 3.
So to compute each
the numbers on the right,
we took the max over by a 2x2 region.
So this is as if you're applying
a filter size of 2 because you're
taking 2x2 regions, and
you're taking a stride of 2.
So these are actually the Hyperparameters,
Of max pooling.
Because we start from this filter size is
like a 2x2 region, that gives you the 9.
And then you step it over two steps to
look at this region to give you the 2.
And then for the next row,
you step down two steps to give you the 6.
And then you step to the right
by two steps to give you the 3.
So because the squares are 2x2,
f is equal to 2.
And because you stride by 2,
s is equal to 2.
So here's the intuition behind
what max pooling is doing.
If you think of this 4x4 input
as some set of features.
Maybe not, if you think of
this 4x4 region as some set
of features, deactivations in
some layer of the neural network,
then a large number means that it's
maybe detected a particular feature.
Right, so the upper left hand quadrant has
this particular feature, maybe a vertical
edge, or maybe an eye, or a we're
scared of it trying to detect the cap.
But clearly that feature exists
in the upper left hand quadrant.
Whereas this feature,
maybe there's a cat eye detector,
whereas this feature doesn't really
exist in the upper right hand quadrant.
So what the max operation does is so long
as the feature is detected anywhere in one
of these quadrants, it then remains
preserved in the output of Max pooling.
So what the max operator
does is really it says,
if the speech is detected anywhere in
this filter, then keep a high number.
But if this feature is not detected, so
maybe the feature doesn't exist
in the upper right hand quadrant,
then the max of all those numbers
is still itself quite small.
So maybe that's the intuition
behind max pooling.
But I have to admit, I think the main
reason people use max pooling is because
it's been found in a lot of
experiments to work well.
And the intuition I just described,
despite it being often cited,
I don't know if anyone fully knows if
that's the real underlined reason.
I don't know if anyone knows
that that's the real underlying
reason that max pooling
works well in confidence.
One interesting property of max pooling
is that it has a set of hyperparameters,
but it has no parameters to learn, right.
There's actually nothing for
gradient descent to learn.
Once you've fix f and s,
it's just a fixed computation and
gradient descent doesn't change anything.
Let's go through an example with
some different hyperparameters.
Here you have a 5x5 input,
and we're going to apply
max pooling with a filter size that's 3x3,
so
f = 3, and let's use a stride of 1.
So in this case the output
size is going to be 3x3.
And the formula is where it
develops in the previous videos for
figuring out the output size for
a cons layer.
Those formulas also work for max pooling.
All right, so
that's n + 2p- f over s for Or + 1.
That formula also works to figure
out the output size of max pool.
But in this example let's compute each
of the elements of this 3x3 output.
The upper left hand elements,
we're going to look over that region.
So notice this is a 3x3 region
because of filter size is 3,
and take the max there,
so that's going to be 9.
And then we shift it over by 1
because we can take stride of 1,
so that max in the blue box is 9.
Let's shift that over again.
The max of the blue box is 5.
And then let's go on to the next row.
A stride of 1, so
we're just stepping down by one step.
So max in that region is 9,
max in that region is 9,
max in that region,
there's two 5s, the max is the 5.
And then finally, max in that is 8,
max in that is 6.
And max in that does not give you
does not give you the red corner.
Okay, so this,
with this as the high parameters f = 3,
s = 1, gives that output as shown.
Now so far,
I've shown max pooling on a 2D input.
If you have a 3D input, then the output
will have the same dimension.
So for example, if you have 5x5x2,
then the output will be 3x3x2.
And the way you compute max pooling is you
perform the computation we just described
on each of the channels independently.
So we have the first channel, which is
shown here on top, is still the same.
And then for the second channel, I guess
this one that I just drew at the bottom,
you would do the same computation
on that slice of this volume.
And that gives you this second slice.
And more generally, if this was
5x5 by some number of channels,
the output will be 3x3 by
that same number of channels.
And the max pooling computation
is done independently on
each of these nc channels.
So that's max pooling.
There's one other type of pooling that
isn't used very often that I'll mention
briefly, which is average pooling.
So that's pretty much what you'd expect,
which is
instead of taking the maxes within
each filter, you take the average.
So in this example, the average
of the numbers in purple is 3.75,
then there's 1.25, and 4, and 2.
And so this is average pooling
with hyperparameters f = 2,
s = 2, we can choose other
hyperparameters as well.
So these days max pooling is used
much more often than average pooling,
with one exception, which is sometimes,
very deep in a neural network,
you might use average pooling to
collapse your implementation from, say,
7x7x1000.
And average over all the spacial
extents to get 1x1x1000.
We'll see an example of this later.
But you see max pooling used much more in
the neural network than average pooling.
So just to summarize,
the hyperparameters for
pooling are f, the filter size,
and s, the stride.
And maybe common choices of
parameters might be f = 2, s = 2.
This is used quite often.
And this is has the effect of
roughly shrinking the height and
width By a factor of about two.
And the common choice of
hyperparameters might be f = 2, s = 2,.
And this has the effect of
shrinking the height and
width of the representation
by a factor of two.
Have also seen f = 3, s = 2 used.
And then the other hyperparameter
is just the combined bit that
says are you using max pooling or
are you using average pooling?
If you want you can add
an extra hyperparameter for
the padding, although this is very,
very rarely used.
When you do max pooling,
usually you do not use any padding.
Although, there is one exception
that we'll see next week as well.
But for the most part, max pooling
usually does not use any padding.
So the most common value of p,
by far, is p equals 0.
And the input of max pooling is
that you input the volume of size
that and each by nw and nc, and
it would output a volume of
size given by this, right.
So assuming there's no padding,
x nw- f over s + 1 for x nc.
And so the number of input
channels is equal to the number of
output channels because pooling applies
to each of your channels independently.
One thing to note about pooling is that
there are no parameters to learn, right.
So when you implement backprop,
you find that there are no parameters
that backprop will adapt to max pooling.
Instead there are just these hyper
parameters that you set once,
maybe set once by hand or
set using cross validation.
And then, beyond that, you're done.
It's just a fixed function that the neural
network computes in one of the layers.
And there is actually nothing to learn,
it's just a fixed function.
So that's it for pooling.
So that's it for pooling,
we now know how to build convulational
layers and pooling layers.
In the next video, let's see a more
complex example of a ConvNet,
one that will also allow us to
introduce fully connected layers